AVL tree is a data structure commonly used software development where performance of tree operations is crucial. In many use cases, programmers like to utilize this data structure for better insertion and deletion performances compared to similar data structures like binary search tree and array list.
However, there is a lack of existing libraries and toolkits that provide a concrete implementation of the AVL tree. What is more, existing tree data structures provided by libraries lack customization such as using custom classes and comparators.
Our objective is to develop a C++ library that provides an AVL tree data structure that allows custom classes and comparators, and operations such as concatenation and splitting. We envision a C++ library consisting of .h files and .cc files, that exposes a C++ object-oriented implementation of AVL tree utilizing C++ templates. Existing solutions such as binary search tree and array list have O(n) insertion and deletion time complexities, which is not ideal in many applications. Our library that allows programmers to easily construct and use AVL trees provides better time complexities in all use cases, i.e. O(log n) for insert, delete and search operations. This empowers programmers to easily build algorithms that have better time complexities, and in result, better-performing applications. To measure the benefits of our library, we will perform large-input testing on our AVL Tree implementation and existing solutions such as binary search tree and array list, and then compare their performances in different use cases. We will also collect constructive responses by inviting programmers to submit bug reports via Github issues, in order to improve our library.
